[military drum roll]
♪ In Sixteen Hundred Seven ♪
♪ We sailed the open sea ♪
♪ For glory, God and gold ♪
♪ And the Virginia Company ♪
♪ For the New World
is like heaven ♪
♪ And we'll all
be rich and free ♪
♪ Or so we have been told ♪
♪ By the Virginia Company ♪
♪ So we have been told ♪
[whistles, chattering]
[baby crying]
♪ For glory, God, and gold ♪
♪ And the Virginia Company ♪
Ready to hoist
the cannon?
Aye!
Hey, look.
Is that Smith?
That's him, all right.
The old sea dog.
Captain John Smith?
I've heard amazing
stories about him.
Are you coming
on this voyage, too?
Course he is, you half-wit!
You can't fight Indians
without John Smith!
That's right. I'm not
about to let you boys
have all the fun.
♪ On the beaches of Virginny ♪
♪ There's diamonds
like debris ♪
♪ There's silver
rivers flowin' ♪
♪ Gold you pick
right off a tree ♪
♪ With a nugget
for my Winnie ♪
♪ And another one for me ♪
♪ And all the rest'll go ♪
♪ To the Virginia Company ♪
♪ It's glory, God, and gold ♪
♪ And the Virginia Company ♪♪
[howling wind, thunderclaps]
[men yell]
Full anchor release!
Come on, lads!
Come on!
[man] Give me a hand,
someone!
[man 2] Watch out!
[men shout]
[man] Faster!
She's taking on more water!
Look out!
John! Get down here!
The cannons
are breaking loose!
Reef the topsails!
Aye, sir!
Steady on your course!
It's all right, Thomas!
We'll get her tied off.
[man] Say your
prayers, lads!
Look out!
Thomas, watch out...!
Help!
[man] Man overboard!
[man] Stay your course!
He's lost!
Help!
Pull the pin.
[man] Aye, sir!
[man] Smith!
Smith!
Are you crazy?
Hang on, Thomas.
I've got you!
Quick... the rope!
Heave!
Come on, lads! Pull!
Pull! Pull!
Put your back into it!
Hang on!
[grunting, gasping]
Ah, my lucky lad!
Well, that was refreshing.
Well done, Smith.
Of course...
...you'd all do
the same for me.
Yes, yes.
Sure, sure.
Of course we would!
Absolutely!
Yeah, we would.
Trouble on deck?
Governor Ratcliffe!
Thomas fell
overboard, sir.
Thank heavens he's been
successfully retrieved.
Well done, Smith.
Thank you, sir.
Don't lose heart, men.
It won't be long before
we reach the New World,
and remember what
awaits us there...
Freedom...
[barking]
...prosperity...
...the adventure
of our lives.
You're the finest crew
England has to offer,
and nothing,
not wind nor rain,
nor a thousand
bloodthirsty savages
shall stand in our way.
Carry on, men!
[cheering]
A stirring oration, sir.
I'm sure the men
were most exhilarated!
Let us hope so.
I'll need those
witless peasants to
dig up my gold, won't I?
[growling]
This New World's
going to be great, John.
I'm going to get
a pile of gold,
build me a big house,
and if any Indian tries
to stop me, I'll blast him.
Just worry about that
fortune of yours, Thomas.
Leave the savages to me.
You think they'll
give us trouble?
Not as much trouble
as Smith'll give them.
[men laugh]
♪ We'll kill
ourselves an injun ♪
♪ Or maybe two or three ♪
♪ We're stalwart men and bold
of the Virginia Company ♪♪
What do you suppose
the New World will
look like?
Like all the others,
I suppose.
I've seen hundreds
of New Worlds, Thomas.
What could possibly be
different about this one?
♪ It's glory, God, and gold ♪
♪ And the Virginia Company ♪♪
[tribal drumming]
♪ Hega hega ♪
♪ Ya-hi-ye hega ♪
♪ Ya-hi-ye-ne-he ♪
♪ Hega ♪
[horn blowing]
♪ Hega, hega ♪
♪ Ya-hi-ye hega ♪
♪ Ya-hi-ye-ne-he ♪
♪ Hega ♪
♪ Steady as the beating drum ♪
♪ Singing to the cedar flute ♪
♪ Seasons go
and seasons come ♪
♪ Bring the corn
and bear the fruit ♪
♪ By the waters
sweet and clean ♪
♪ Where the mighty
sturgeon lives ♪
♪ Plant the squash
and reap the bean ♪
♪ All the earth
our Mother gives ♪
♪ O, Great Spirit,
hear our song ♪
♪ Help us keep
the ancient ways ♪
♪ Keep the sacred fires
strong ♪
♪ Walk in balance
all our days ♪
♪ Seasons go
and seasons come ♪
♪ Steady as
the beating drum ♪
♪ Plum to seed
to bud to plum ♪
[whooping]
♪ Steady as
the beating drum ♪
♪ Ya-hi-ye hega ♪
♪ Ya-hi-ye-ne-he hega ♪♪
Hey! Oof!
[speaking Algonquian]
It's good to be home.
The Massawomecks
are defeated!
With the help
of our brothers,
our villages
are safe again.
[cheering]
Your return has brought
much joy to the village.
Look at all
the smiling faces.
[giggling]
Yes. But there's one
smiling face I don't see.
Where is my daughter?
You know Pocahontas.
She has her
mother's spirit.
She goes wherever
the wind takes her.
[leaves rustling]
[girl] Pocahontas!
Your father's back.
Come down here!
He's back, Flit.
[purring]
[buzzing]
Come on, Meeko!
No! Not that... way.
Show-off.
[clicking tongue]
[trilling]
[purring]
[squeaking]
[whining]
[shrieking]
Pocahontas?
Are you all right?
You'd better be all right,
because I'm not coming in
after you...
[gasping, coughing]
Don't you think we're getting
a little old for these games?
[laughing, shrieking]
[giggling]
[grunting]
[squeaking]
Help me turn
this thing over.
[chirping]
What were you
doing up there?
Thinking. Meeko!
About the dream again?
Have you figured it out yet?
I know it means something,
I just don't know what.
You should ask
your father about it.
Maybe I should.
[purring]
Come on, Flit.
Quit playing around.
We have to get back.
[deflating sound]
[pounding drum]
[man] ...faced
a determined enemy.
The battle lasted from
the rising of the sun
until the evening
shadows fell.
Our warriors
fought with courage,
but none as bravely
as Kocoum,
for he attacked with
the fierce strength
of the bear.
He has proven
himself to be...
Oh, he is so handsome!
I especially
love the smile.
[man continues]
...destroying every
enemy in his path.
Tonight, we will
feast in his honor.
[cheering, whooping]
My daughter.
Winggapo, Father.
Seeing you
gives me great joy.
I'm so glad
you've come home safely.
Come with me.
We have much
to talk about.
I want to hear everything
you've been doing.
[purring, buzzing]
Father,
for many nights now,
I've been having
a very strange dream.
It's telling me
something's
about to happen,
something exciting.
Yes. Something exciting
is about to happen.
[purring]
Really? What is it?
Kocoum has asked to seek
your hand in marriage.
Marry Kocoum?
[chirping]
[gagging]
I told him it would
make my heart soar.
But he's so... serious.
My daughter, Kocoum
will make a fine husband.
He is loyal and strong and
will build you a good house
with sturdy walls.
With him, you will be
safe from harm.
Father, I think my dream
is pointing me down
another path.
This is the right
path for you.
But why can't I choose...
[gasping]
[growling]
[cuckoo sound]
[laughing]
Pocahontas,
come with me.
You are the daughter
of the chief.
It is time to take
your place among
our people.
Even the wild mountain
stream must someday
join the big river.
♪ As the river
cuts his path ♪
♪ Though the river's
proud and strong ♪
♪ He will choose
the smoothest course ♪
That's why rivers
live so long.
♪ They're steady ♪
♪ As the steady
beating drum ♪♪
Your mother wore this
for our wedding.
It was her dream to see
you wear it at your own.
It suits you.
[purring]
He wants me
to be steady.
Like the river.
[shrieking, squeaking]
[chuckling]
But it's not steady at all.
[squeaking]
♪ What I love most
about rivers is ♪
♪ You can't step
in the same river twice ♪
♪ The water's
always changing ♪
♪ Always flowing ♪
♪ But people, I guess
can't live like that ♪
♪ We all must pay a price ♪
♪ To be safe we lose our
chance of ever knowing ♪
♪ What's around
the river bend ♪
♪ Waiting just around
♪ I look once more ♪
♪ Just around
the river bend ♪
♪ Beyond the shore ♪
♪ Where the gulls fly free ♪
♪ Don't know what for ♪
♪ What I dream
the day might send ♪
♪ Just around
the river bend ♪
[squeaking]
♪ For me ♪
♪ Coming for me ♪
♪ I feel it there
beyond those trees ♪
♪ Or right behind
these waterfalls ♪
♪ Can I ignore that sound
of distant drumming? ♪
♪ For a handsome, sturdy
husband who builds
handsome, sturdy walls ♪
♪ And never dreams that
something might be coming ♪
♪ Just around
the river bend ♪
♪ I look once more ♪
♪ Just around
the river bend ♪
♪ Beyond the shore ♪
♪ Somewhere past the sea ♪
♪ Don't know what for ♪
♪ Why do all
my dreams extend ♪
♪ Just around
the river bend? ♪
the river bend ♪
♪ Should I choose
the smoothest course ♪
♪ Steady as
the beating drum? ♪
♪ Should I marry Kocoum? ♪
♪ Is all my dreaming
at an end? ♪
♪ Or do you still ♪
♪ Wait for me, dream giver? ♪
♪ Just around the river ♪
♪ Bend ♪♪
[purring]
[chirping, twittering]
[hooting]
[old woman]
Is that my Pocahontas?
Grandmother Willow,
I need to talk to you.
Good morning, child.
I was hoping
you'd visit today.
Why, your mother's necklace!
That's what I wanted
to talk to you about.
My father wants me
to marry Kocoum.
Kocoum?
But he's so serious!
I know. My father thinks
it's the right path for me.
But lately, I've been
having this dream,
and I think it's...
Oh, a dream!
Let's hear all about it!
[twittering, squeaking]
Quiet!
[shouting] Quiet!
[ribbits]
[gulping]
Now, child,
you were saying?
Well, I'm running
through the woods,
and then right there
in front of me is an arrow.
As I look at it,
it starts to spin.
A spinning arrow?
How unusual!
Yes, it spins faster
and faster and faster...
until, suddenly, it stops.
[chittering]
Hmm.
Well, it seems to me this
spinning arrow is pointing
you down your path.
But, Grandmother Willow,
what is my path?
How am I ever
going to find it?
[chuckles]
Your mother asked me
the very same question.
She did?
What did you tell her?
I told her to listen.
All around you
are spirits, child.
They live in the earth,
the water, the sky.
If you listen,
they will guide you.
I hear the wind.
Yes.
What is it
telling you?
I don't understand.
[distant howling]
♪ Que que na-to-ra ♪
♪ You will understand ♪
♪ Listen with your heart ♪
♪ Let it break upon you
like a wave upon the sand ♪
It's saying
something's coming.
Strange clouds?
♪ Listen with your heart ♪
♪ You will understand ♪♪
[drumming]
[squealing]
[purring]
What do you see?
Clouds. Strange clouds.
[Ratcliffe] Look at it,
Wiggins, an entire New World
chock-full of gold,
just waiting for me.
And scores of adventures
waiting for us, right, Percy?
Do you think we'll
meet some savages?
If we do, we shall
be sure to give them
a proper English greeting.
Oh! Gift baskets!
And he came
so highly recommended.
It's perfect, the water's
deep enough. We can pull
right up to shore.
Hey, there, Percy.
Very well, then.
Give the order.
Already done, sir.
I've got a crew assembled,
and they're ready to go.
About the natives...
I'm counting on you
to make sure those
filthy heathens
don't disrupt
our mission.
Well, if they're anything
like the savages
I've fought before,
it's nothing
I can't handle.
Right.
That'll be all, Smith.
There's a good man.
See ya, Percy.
[growling]
The men like Smith,
don't they?
[growling]
I've never been
a popular man.
I like you.
Don't think I don't know
what those backstabbers
at court say about me.
Oh, yes, all that talk
about being a pathetic
social climber
who's failed
at everything...
I'm very well aware
that this is
my last chance for glory.
But mark my words, Wiggins,
when King James sees the gold
these peasants unearth,
success will be mine,
at last.
[man] Wake up! Shake a leg!
Two of you up
on the yardarm!
It's incredible.
And it's all ours.
I've never seen
anything like it.
It can look like
Ratcliffe's knickers
for all I care,
just as long as
I get off this
stinking boat!
Come on, men.
We didn't come all this
way just to look at it.
[men call]
[birds chirp]
[wilderness sounds]
[man] Keep it taut, lads.
Keep it taut! Steady!
Steady!
[man 2] Hold up!
That's far enough!
All right now...
tie her off!
Here, John,
tie off this end.
John? John?
What are you
doing up there?
Getting a better look.
[squeaking]
[gasping]
[purring]
[squeaking]
Hey!
[chittering]
[gasping]
[cooing]
Well... you're
a strange looking fellow.
You hungry?
Here you go.
It's a biscuit.
It's food.
Well, sort of.
You like it, eh?
[purring]
Well, try eating it
for four months straight.
[chittering]
You got a friend
back there?
[angry squeaking]
Hey... what the...
What...? Watch out.
No... get that...
Look out!
[purring, chirping]
[trumpet sounds]
John, you better
get down here!
The governor's
coming ashore.
[angry squeaking]
All right. I'm leaving.
[chirping]
[murmuring]
[man] Did you see
their skin?
[man 2]
Pale and sickly.
They have hair
on their faces
like dogs.
My brothers, we must know
more about these visitors.
Kekata, what do you see?
[chanting]
[speaking Algonquian]
[rattling, howling]
These are not
men like us...
...but strange beasts
with bodies that shine
like the sun,
and weapons that
spout fire and thunder.
They prowl the earth
like ravenous wolves,
consuming everything
in their path.
Great Powhatan, I will lead
our warriors to the river
and attack.
We will destroy
these invaders the way we
destroyed the Massawomecks.
Kocoum, in that battle
we knew how to fight
our enemy,
but these pale visitors
are strange to us.
Take some men
to the river
to observe them.
Let us hope
they do not
intend to stay.
[military drumroll]
I hereby claim this land
and all its riches
in the name of His Majesty,
King James the First,
and do so name this
settlement Jamestown.
[men cheer]
Bravo! Bravo!
Beautifully spoken, sir!
Hurry now, Percy.
We must be all
squeaky clean
for the New World.
[sighing]
[gulping]
[purring]
[growling]
[snarling]
[yelping]
[purring]
[gulping]
[snarling]
[barking]
[yipping]
[growling, moaning]
Captain Smith,
it appears I've selected
the perfect location.
Not a savage in sight.
Just because we don't
see them doesn't mean
they're not out there.
Then perhaps you should
venture forth and determine
their whereabouts, hm?
If there are any Indians
out there, I'll find them.
Now, gentlemen, to work.
You men,
get the ship unloaded,
you men build the fort.
The rest of you...
break out the shovels!
It's time to
start digging!
Digging?
Well, of course!
Let's not forget
what the Spanish found
when they came
to the New World.
Gold! Mountains of it.
Why, for years,
they've been ravaging
the New World
of its most
precious resources.
But now...
...it's our turn.
♪ The gold of Cortez ♪
[gasping]
♪ The jewels of Pizarro ♪
♪ Will seem
like mere trinkets
by this time tomorrow ♪
♪ The gold we find here
will dwarf them by far ♪
♪ Oh, with all you got
in ya, boys ♪
♪ Dig up Virginia, boys ♪
♪ Mine, boys ♪
♪ Mine every mountain ♪
♪ And dig, boys ♪
♪ Dig till ya drop ♪
♪ Grab a pick, boys ♪
♪ Quick, boys ♪
♪ Shove in a shovel ♪
♪ Uncover those
lovely pebbles that
sparkle and shine ♪
♪ It's gold ♪
♪ And it's mine,
mine, mine ♪
♪ Dig and diggety dig ♪
♪ And dig and dig
and diggety dig ♪
♪ Hey, nonny, nonny hi,
nonny, nonny ♪
♪ Ooh, how I love it ♪
♪ Hey, nonny, nonny hi,
nonny, nonny ♪
♪ Riches for cheap ♪
♪ Hey, nonny, nonny hi,
nonny, nonny ♪
♪ There'll be heaps of it ♪
♪ And I'll be
on top of the heap ♪
♪ Diggety, diggety,
diggety, dig! ♪
♪ My rivals back home
it's not that I'm bitter ♪
♪ But think how they'll squirm
when they see how I glitter ♪
♪ The ladies at court
will be all a-twitter ♪
[sighing]
♪ The king will reward me ♪
♪ He'll knight me
No! Lord me ♪
♪ It's mine!
Mine, mine for the taking ♪
♪ It's mine, boys
Mine me that gold ♪
♪ With those nuggets dug
it's glory they'll give me ♪
♪ My dear friend,
King Jimmy will probably
build me a shrine ♪
♪ When all of the gold ♪
♪ Is mine ♪
♪ And dig and dig
and diggety dig ♪
♪ All of my life I have
searched for a land
like this one ♪
♪ A wild or more challenging
country I couldn't design ♪
♪ Hundreds of dangers await
and I don't plan to miss one ♪
♪ In a land I can claim,
a land I can tame ♪
♪ The greatest
adventure is mine ♪
♪ Keep on working, lads ♪
♪ Mine ♪
♪ Don't be shirking, lads ♪
♪ Mine, boys, mine ♪
♪ Mine me that gold ♪
♪ Beautiful gold ♪
♪ Dig for that gold ♪
♪ Make this island my land ♪
♪ Make the mounds big, boys
I'd help you to dig, boys ♪
♪ But I've got this
crick in me spine ♪
♪ This land we behold ♪
♪ This beauty untold ♪
♪ A man can be bold ♪
♪ It all can be sold ♪
♪ So go for the gold ♪
♪ We know which is here ♪
♪ Mine, mine, mine ♪♪
[indistinct singing]
[rushing water]
[purring]
No! Wait! Please...
Please!
Don't run off.
It's all right.
I'm not going to hurt you.
Here. Let me help you
out of there.
[speaking Algonquian]
You don't understand a word
I'm saying, do you?
It's all right.
♪ Listen with your heart ♪
♪ You will understand ♪
[squeaking]
♪ Let it break upon you ♪
♪ Like a wave
upon the sand ♪
Who are you?
♪ Listen with your heart ♪
♪ You will understand ♪♪
Pocahontas.
What? What did you say?
My name is Pocahontas.
I'm John Smith.
That's it.
Keep at it, men.
[men grunt]
Keep digging.
It's got to be
here somewhere.
There's 30 more
down by the ridge.
That makes
more than 100!
Anything yet?
Nothing but rocks
and dirt, sir.
How long are we going to
keep digging like this, sir?
We're slaving away,
busting our backs
day and night...
For king and country.
I know, I know.
And I share your fatigue.
Wiggins!
Coming!
Dispose of this.
[whimpering]
Who's a good doggie?
[sighing]
Fetch, boy!
[yelping]
Savages! It's an ambush!
Arm yourselves!
Run!
[men shout]
Make sure every man
has a musket!
Shoot!
Them, you idiot!
[yipping]
Where's that blasted Smith
when I need him?
[blast]
[groaning]
Namontack!
[grunting, groaning]
Back to the village!
[cheering]
Shut up. Shut up, you fools!
They'll be back.
Everyone back to camp.
Get the rest of the cannons
ashore, finish building the
fort!
Aye, Governor!
And you... learn to use
that thing properly.
A man's not a man
unless he knows
how to shoot.
[Kekata chanting]
[groaning]
[rattling, chanting]
These beasts
invade our shores,
and now this.
[rattling, chanting]
This wound is
strange to me.
[groans]
We will fight this enemy,
but we cannot do it alone.
Kocoum, send messengers to
every village in our nation.
We will call on
our brothers
to help us fight.
These white men
are dangerous!
No one is to
go near them.
[John]
It's called a helmet.
[Pocahontas] Helmet.
[squeaking]
[John] So...
what river is this?
[Pocahontas]
Quiyoughcohannock.
You have the most
unusual names here.
Chickahominy. Quiyo...
Quiyoughcohannock.
Pocahontas.
You have the most
unusual name, too.
John Smith.
[munching]
Hey! Is this bottomless pit
a friend of yours?
Meeko!
Well, how do you do, Meeko?
[purring]
It's all right.
It's just a handshake.
Here, let me show you.
Nothing's happening.
No, no.
I need your hand first.
It's how we say hello.
[purring, squeaking]
This is how we say hello.
Winggapo.
And how we say
goodbye. Anah.
I like hello better.
[squeaking]
[angry chirping]
Yeah, I remember you.
Flit just doesn't
like strangers.
But I'm not a stranger
anymore.
Hmm. Stubborn little fellow,
isn't he?
Very stubborn.
[blows raspberry]
Hey!
Meeko! Come back here.
Don't worry.
He can't hurt it.
Hey! What are you doing?
Meeko, bring that back.
No, it's all right.
He can keep it.
Call it a gift.
[clanging]
What was that?
My compass.
Compass?
It tells you how to find
your way when you get lost.
It's all right.
I'll get another in London.
London?
Is that your village?
Yes.
It's a very big village.
What's it like?
It's got streets
filled with carriages,
bridges over the rivers,
and buildings
as tall as trees.
I'd like to see
those things.
You will.
How?
We're going to
build them here.
We'll show your people
how to use this land
properly.
How to make
the most of it.
Make the most of it?
Yes. We'll build roads
and decent houses...
Our houses are fine.
You think that
only because you
don't know any better.
Wait a minute.
Don't take it that...
Hey! Wait!
[squeaking]
Wait! There's so much
we can teach you.
We've improved the lives
of savages all over
the world.
Savages?
Not that
you're a savage.
Just my people.
No.
Listen, that's not what
I meant. Let me explain.
Let go!
No. I'm not
letting you leave.
Look, don't do this.
Savage is just a word,
you know?
A term for...
people who are uncivilized.
Like me.
Well, when I say
uncivilized,
what I mean is...
[snapping, yelling]
[moaning]
[clanging, grunting]
What you mean is...
not like you.
♪ You think
I'm an ignorant savage ♪
♪ And you've been
so many places ♪
♪ I guess it must be so ♪
♪ But still, I cannot see ♪
♪ If the savage one is me ♪
♪ How can there be so much
that you don't know ♪
♪ You don't know ♪
♪ You think you own
whatever land you land on ♪
♪ The earth is just
a dead thing you can claim ♪
♪ But I know every rock
and tree and creature ♪
♪ Has a life, has a spirit,
has a name ♪
♪ You think the only people
who are people ♪
[growling]
♪ Are the people ♪
♪ Who look
and think like you ♪
♪ But if you walk
the footsteps of a stranger ♪
♪ You'll learn things
you never knew
you never knew ♪
♪ Have you ever heard the wolf
cry to the blue corn moon? ♪
♪ Or ask the grinning bobcat
why he grinned? ♪
♪ Can you sing with all
the voices of the mountain? ♪
♪ Can you paint with all
the colors of the wind? ♪
♪ Can you paint
with all the colors ♪
♪ Of the wind? ♪
♪ Come run the hidden pine
trails of the forest ♪
♪ Come taste the sun-sweet
berries of the earth ♪
♪ Come roll in all the riches
all around you ♪
♪ And for once, never wonder
what they're worth ♪
♪ The rainstorm and the river
are my brothers ♪
♪ The heron and the otter
are my friends ♪
♪ And we are all connected
to each other ♪
♪ In a circle,
in a hoop, that never ends ♪
♪ How high
does the sycamore grow? ♪
♪ If you cut it down
then you'll never know ♪
♪ And you'll never
hear the wolf cry
to the blue corn moon ♪
♪ For whether we are
white or copper-skinned ♪
♪ We need to sing with all
the voices of the mountain ♪
♪ We need to paint with all
the colors of the wind ♪
♪ You can own the earth,
and still ♪
♪ All you'll own
is earth until ♪
♪ You can paint ♪
♪ With all the colors ♪
♪ Of the ♪
♪ Wind ♪♪
[rustling]
[faint drumming]
What is it?
The drums.
They mean trouble.
I shouldn't be here.
I want to
see you again.
I can't.
Please, don't leave.
I'm sorry.
I have to go.
[rolling thunder]
[man] All right!
This one's ready to hoist!
[man 2] Two on each side.
Ready now? Push!
Watch it!
It's slipping.
Come on, lads,
it's only a little
picket fence.
[man 2] Steady! Steady!
[man] There you go.
That'll keep everything out,
eh, John?
Something wrong, John?
What?
You've been quiet
the last few days.
He's mad he missed
all the action.
Don't worry, John.
You'll get your chance
to deal with the Indians.
Yeah. We'll take care
of them, like we did
last time, eh, mates?
♪ We shot ourselves
an injun ♪
♪ Or maybe two or three ♪♪
All right,
you howling nutter,
get to work.
Come on, Ben.
It's just a little fun.
Sure! We're having
loads of fun, right?
Look at us.
No gold, no food,
while Ratcliffe sits up
in his tent all day,
happy as a clam.
I'm doomed!
I should be wallowing
in riches by now,
and I haven't found
as much as a speck.
Think. Think!
It's got to be
around here somewhere.
Where could it be?
[music box plays]
I've mined the forests and
the hills and the swamps...
and nothing!
[growling]
[purring]
[barking]
Why can't I find it?
What am I overlooking?
[groaning] I... I...
I made it myself!
Take that silly...
Of course. The Indians.
Wiggins, why do you think
those insolent heathens
attacked us?
We invaded their land,
cut down their trees
and dug up their earth?
It's the gold!
They have it,
and they don't want us
to take it from them.
Well, I'll just have to
take it by force then,
won't I?
You there!
Where's Captain Smith?
Well, he's... gone.
Aye. Your singing
scared him off.
Go get him,
for heaven's sake!
What if we run
into the Indians?
That's what guns are for.
Now arm yourselves
and get moving!
[wolf howls]
[barking]
[chewing noisily]
[purring]
[groaning]
[squeaking]
[sighing deeply]
[Powhatan]
Pocahontas.
You should be inside
the village.
We'll be all right.
We're gathering food for
when the warriors arrive.
Don't go far.
Now is not the time
to be running off.
Yes, Father.
When I see you wear
that necklace, you look
just like your mother.
I miss her.
But she is
still with us.
Whenever the wind
moves through the trees,
I feel her presence.
Our people look to her
for wisdom and strength.
Someday, they will
look to you as well.
I would be
honored by that.
You shouldn't be
out here alone.
I'll send for Kocoum.
All right,
what is it?
What?
You're hiding something.
I'm not hiding anything.
Pocahontas, you can tell me.
I promise.
I won't tell anyone...
Pocahontas, look!
[buzzing]
It's one of them!
I'm going to get...
What are you
doing here?
I had to see you again.
[muffled yelp]
[Kocoum] Pocahontas!
Pocahontas!
[muffled gasp]
Please!
Don't say anything.
Quick! This way!
But...
Nakoma.
Where is Pocahontas?
I haven't seen her.
Pocahontas can't
keep running off.
It's dangerous out there.
Tell her that.
She listens to you.
[scoffs] Sure she does.
[squeaking]
[munching]
[John] This place
is incredible.
And to think we came
all this way just to
dig it up for gold.
[Pocahontas] Gold?
Hey, Meeko.
What's gold?
You know, it's yellow.
It comes out of the ground.
It's really valuable.
Oh! Here,
we have lots of it.
Gold.
No, no! Gold is this.
There's nothing like that
around here.
No gold?
Not that I've seen.
[chuckling]
All this way for nothing.
Those boys are in
for a big surprise.
Will they leave?
Some of them might.
Will you go home?
Well, it's not like
I have much of a home
to go back to.
I've never really
belonged anywhere.
You could belong here.
[wind singing]
What was that?
Did you see something?
No, no. I just...
I didn't see anything.
Did I?
Look again.
♪ Let it break upon you ♪
♪ Like a wave
upon the sand ♪♪
Hello, John Smith.
Pocahontas, that tree
is talking to me.
Then you should talk back.
Don't be frightened,
young man.
My bark is worse
than my bite.
Say something.
What do you say to a tree?
Anything you want.
So...
Come closer, John Smith.
He has a good soul.
And he's handsome, too!
Oh, I like her.
I knew you would.
Smith! Smith,
where are you, mate?
We can't let them
see us.
Quick! Over here.
This place gives me
the creeps. Savages
could be hiding anywhere.
If you spot one,
don't ask questions.
Just shoot.
[grunting]
Watch your feet,
you big oaf!
It wasn't me!
It was the tree.
Of course!
The tree just felt
like lifting its roots...
Let's get out of here.
[both] Ow!
Run!
But what about Smith?
He's a big lad,
he can take care
of himself!
I'm glad
you're on our side.
There's still some snap
in these old vines.
I better get back before
they send the whole camp
after me.
When will I
see you again?
Meet me tonight, right here.
Well! I haven't had
this much excitement
in 200 years.
What am I doing?
I shouldn't be
seeing him again.
I mean, I want to
see him again.
Who wouldn't?
I want to see him again.
But, still, something
inside is telling me
it's the right thing.
Perhaps it's your dream.
My dream? Do you think
he's the one the spinning
arrow was pointing to?
Hmm.
The warriors are here.
[chattering]
Pocahontas, are you crazy?
What were you doing
with one of them?
There you are!
Kocoum!
Look at them! Now we have
enough warriors to destroy
those white demons!
Now that we are
joined by our brothers,
we will defeat this enemy.
Father, I need to
speak with you.
Not now, my daughter.
The council is gathering.
We don't have to fight them.
There must be a better way.
Sometimes our paths
are chosen for us.
But maybe we should try
talking to them.
They do not
want to talk.
But if one of them
did want to talk,
you would listen to him,
wouldn't you?
Pocahontas...
Wouldn't you?
Of course I would,
but it is not that simple.
Nothing is
simple anymore.
[twigs snap]
[whimpering]
[barking]
[growling]
[chittering]
[barking, growling]
[purring]
[howling]
[coyote howls]
[gasping]
Easy, Thomas, it's me.
Oh, John!
I could've killed you.
Not aiming like that,
you couldn't.
Keep both eyes open
when you shoot.
You'll see twice as well.
Smith! There you are.
We were looking
all over for you.
Smith! Where have you been?
I was out scouting
the terrain, sir.
Excellent.
Then you must know
the Indians' whereabouts.
We'll need that
information for
the battle.
What battle?
We will eliminate
these savages
once and for all.
No! You can't do that!
Oh, can't I?
Look. We don't
have to fight them.
John, what's
gotten into you?
I met one of them.
You what?
A savage?
They're not savages.
They can help us.
They know the land.
They know how to
navigate the rivers.
And look. It's food.
What is it?
It's better than hardtack
and gruel, that's for sure.
I like gruel.
They don't want to feed us,
you ninnies!
They want to kill us!
All of us!
They've got our gold,
and they'll do anything
to keep it!
But there is no gold.
No gold?
And I suppose your
little Indian friend
told you this?
Yes.
Lies. Lies! All of it!
Murderous thieves.
There's no room
for their kind in
civilized society.
But this is their land!
This is my land!
I make the laws here.
And I say anyone
who so much as
looks at an Indian
without killing him
on sight will be tried
for treason and hanged.
[coyotes howl]
[panting]
[Nakoma] Pocahontas!
Nakoma.
Don't go out there.
I lied for you once,
don't ask me to do it again.
I have to do this.
He's one of them!
You don't know him.
If you go out there,
you'll be turning your
back on your own people.
I'm trying to
help my people.
Pocahontas, please,
you're my best friend.
I don't want you
to get hurt.
I won't.
I know what I'm doing.
Pocahontas, no!
[Ben] Ratcliffe wouldn't
take us halfway around
the world for nothing.
[man] But what if Smith
is right? What if there
is no gold?
If you ask me,
Ratcliffe's been lying
to us since we left London.
Listen to you,
you bunch of idiots.
Those savages didn't
attack us for nothing.
They're
hiding something.
If they do have the gold,
I reckon we'll have
to fight them.
Not me. I'm not
risking my neck...
Either too hot or too cold.
I haven't been comfortable
since we got here.
[man] Me, too.
I'm itching a lot.
[gasping]
Follow him.
Yes, Governor.
I want to know where
he's sneaking off to.
Yes, sir.
If you happen to
see any Indians...
...shoot them.
Oh, and, Thomas,
you've been
a slipshod sailor
and a poor excuse
for a soldier.
Don't disappoint me again.
Kocoum.
What is it?
It's Pocahontas.
What's wrong?
Is she all right?
I think she's in trouble.
The earth is
trembling, child.
What's happened?
The warriors are here.
Pocahontas.
John!
Listen to me.
My men are planning
to attack your people.
You've got to warn them.
Maybe it's not too late
to stop this.
You have to come with me
and talk to my father.
Pocahontas, talking
isn't going to do any good.
I already tried
talking to my men,
but everything
about this land
has them spooked.
[howling, moaning]
That's the strangest creature
I've ever seen!
[yowling, whining]
Percy?
[chittering]
[snarling, barking]
Easy, Percy! Come here!
Meeko, come back!
You see what I mean?
Once two sides want to fight,
nothing can stop them.
Come here, both of you!
It's all right.
He's a friend.
Bad! Bad dog! Sit!
[barking]
[squeaking]
[Pocahontas]
What are you doing?
Meeko!
[John]
Percy, get back here!
What are you doing?
Stop that!
All right,
that's enough!
[whimpering]
[whining]
It's enough to make
your sap boil.
Now then, there's something
I want to show you. Look!
The ripples.
What about them?
So small at first,
then look how they grow.
But someone
has to start them.
They're not going
to listen to us.
Young man, sometimes
the right path is not
the easiest one.
Don't you see?
Only when the fighting stops
can you be together.
All right.
Let's go talk
to your father.
[purring]
[squeaking]
[war whooping]
[gasping]
[grunting]
Kocoum, no!
[straining]
Kocoum!
Leave him alone!
[grunting, gasping]
[straining, grunting]
Kocoum, stop!
Both eyes open.
[blasting]
[groaning]
[gasping]
Thomas!
Is he...
You killed him.
I thought that...
Get away from him!
Pocahontas, it won't help!
He was only...
He killed him!
[man]
Get all the wagons...
Thomas, get out of here!
Get out of here!
[war whooping]
[whimpering]
[murmuring in Algonquian]
[chittering]
[whimpering]
[whining]
[purring]
[murmuring, wailing]
[crowd gasps, weeps]
Who did this?
Pocahontas was out
in the woods.
Kocoum went to find her
and this white man
attacked them.
Your weapons are strong,
but now our anger
is stronger.
At sunrise,
he'll be the first to die!
But, Father!
I told you to stay
in the village.
You disobeyed me.
You have shamed
your father!
I was only
trying to help.
Because of your foolishness,
Kocoum is dead!
Take him away!
Kocoum was just coming
to protect me.
Pocahontas...
I sent Kocoum after you.
I was worried about you.
I thought I was doing
the right thing.
All this happened
because of me.
And now I'll never see
John Smith again.
Come with me.
[tribal drums, chanting]
Pocahontas wants to look
into the eyes of the man
who killed Kocoum.
Be quick.
Pocahontas.
I'm so sorry.
For what? This?
I've gotten out of
worse scrapes than this.
Can't think of any
right now, but...
It would've been better
if we'd never met.
None of this
would've happened.
Pocahontas, look at me.
I'd rather die tomorrow
than live a hundred years
without knowing you.
Pocahontas.
I can't leave you.
You never will.
No matter what happens to me,
I'll always be with you.
Forever.
[Thomas] Help!
Somebody help! Help!
Help!
Easy, lad. What is it?
It's Smith!
They got him!
Who got him?
The savages!
Savages?
They captured him!
Dragged him off!
Where'd they take him?
They headed north.
[man]
How many were there?
[Thomas] I don't know.
At least a dozen.
[Ben] Filthy beasts!
It's perfect, Wiggins!
I couldn't have planned
this better myself.
The gold is
as good as mine.
We've got to save him!
He'd do the same
for any of us.
Thomas is right!
We've got to do something.
And so we shall.
I told you those savages
couldn't be trusted.
Smith tried to
befriend them,
and look what
they've done to him!
But now I say
it's time to rescue
our courageous comrade.
At daybreak, we attack!
[cheering]
♪ What can you expect
from filthy little heathens? ♪
♪ Here's what you get
when races are diverse ♪
♪ Their skin's
a hellish red ♪
♪ They're only good
when dead ♪
♪ They're vermin
as I said and worse ♪
♪ They're savages, savages ♪
♪ Barely even human ♪
♪ Savages, savages ♪
♪ Drive them
from our shore! ♪
♪ They're not like
you and me ♪
♪ Which means
they must be evil ♪
♪ We must sound
the drums of war ♪
♪ They're savages, savages ♪
♪ Dirty, shrieking devils ♪
♪ Now we sound
the drums of war ♪
♪ This is what we feared ♪
♪ The paleface is a demon ♪
♪ The only thing
they feel at all is greed ♪
♪ Beneath that milky hide ♪
♪ There's emptiness inside ♪
♪ I wonder if
they even bleed ♪
♪ They're savages, savages ♪
♪ Barely even human ♪
♪ Savages, savages ♪
♪ Killers at the core ♪
♪ They're different from us ♪
♪ Which means
they can't be trusted ♪
♪ We must sound
the drums of war ♪
♪ They're savages, savages ♪
♪ First we deal
with this one ♪
♪ Then we sound
the drums of war ♪
♪ Savages, savages ♪
Let's go get a few, men!
♪ Now it's up to you, men! ♪
♪ Savages ♪
♪ Barely even human ♪
♪ Now we sound the drums ♪
♪ Of war ♪♪
They're going to
kill him at sunrise,
Grandmother Willow.
You have to stop them.
I can't.
Child,
remember your dream.
I was wrong,
Grandmother Willow.
I followed the wrong path.
I feel so lost.
[chittering]
[whining]
[purring]
The compass.
The spinning arrow.
It's the arrow
from your dream!
I was right.
It was pointing to him!
Sunrise.
It's not too late, child!
Let the spirits
of the earth guide you!
You know your path, child.
Now follow it!
♪ This will be the day ♪
Let's go, men!
♪ This will be the morning ♪
Bring out the prisoner!
♪ We will see them
dying in the dust ♪
♪ I don't know
what I can do ♪
♪ Still I know
I've got to try ♪
♪ Now we make them pay ♪
♪ Eagle,
help my feet to fly ♪
♪ Now, without a warning ♪
♪ Mountain,
help my heart be great ♪
♪ Now we leave them
blood and bone and rust ♪
♪ Spirits of
the earth and sky ♪
♪ It's them or us ♪
♪ Please don't let it
be too late ♪
♪ They're a bunch of
filthy, stinking savages ♪
♪ Savages ♪
♪ Demons ♪
♪ Devils ♪
Kill them!
♪ Savages ♪
What are we
waiting for?
♪ Destroy their evil race ♪
♪ Until there's not
a trace left ♪
♪ How loud are
the drums of war? ♪
♪ Now we see what comes
of trying to be chums ♪
♪ Is the death of all I love
carried in the drumming of ♪
♪ War ♪♪
No!
If you kill him,
you'll have to kill me too.
Daughter, stand back.
I won't!
I love him, Father.
Look around you.
This is where the path
of hatred has brought us.
This is the path
I choose, Father.
What will yours be?
[wind whistling]
My daughter speaks
with a wisdom
beyond her years.
We have all come here
with anger in our hearts,
but she comes with
courage and understanding.
From this day forward,
if there is to be
more killing,
it will not
start with me.
Release him.
Now is our chance! Fire!
[Thomas] No.
What?
They let him go!
They don't want to fight!
It's a trick,
don't you see? Fire!
Fine!
I'll settle this myself.
No!
John!
You shot him!
He stepped right into it!
It's his own fault!
[Ben] Smith was
right all along.
[man] We never should've
listened to you.
[Ben] Get the gun!
Traitors!
Unhand me, I say.
How dare you!
Put him in chains!
I'll see you all
hanged for this!
And gag him as well!
[grunting, yelling]
[seagulls cry]
Is he going to make it,
Thomas?
The sooner he gets
to England, the better.
Let's hope the wind
is with him.
Is the ship ready yet?
Any minute now.
Just loading the
last bit of cargo.
[muffled screaming]
Untie me at once!
I'll have your head
for this!
[sniffling] And he came
so highly recommended.
[sighing]
The ship's almost ready.
We'd better get you on board.
We'll lose the tide.
No, not yet.
She said she'd be here.
Look.
Going back is
his only chance.
He'll die
if he stays here.
Here.
It's from
Grandmother Willow's bark.
It'll help with the pain.
What pain? I've had
worse pain than this.
Can't think of
any right now, but...
You are always welcome
among our people.
Thank you, my brother.
I thought you
didn't like strangers.
[chirps]
My mother's necklace.
[whimpering]
See ya, Percy.
[sneezing]
Come with me?
You must choose
your own path.
I'm needed here.
Then... I'll stay with you.
No. You have to go back.
But I can't leave you.
You never will.
No matter what happens,
I'll always be with you...
...forever.
Good luck, lad.
Godspeed, John.
[man] The crew a-ready?
[man 2] Aye, sir!
Set the mainsails.
[man] Weigh anchor!
[man 2] Let go
of the topgallants!
[panting]
[wind singing]